3-Sept-2021

1. Online Test ( Quants +Verbal + logical )
2. Essay Writing
3. Coding
4. Interview


WIPRO NLTH Syllabus 2022	Total Question
Quants	                     16 Question
Logical	                     14 Question
English	                     22 Question
Essay Writing	               1 Question
Coding                     	 2 Question


Shortlisted 09-09-2021

Interview 24-09-21


1. What are the differences between a C++ struct and C++ class?
ans : 
    By default, all the members of the structure are public. In contrast, all members of the class are private.
    
    The structure will automatically initialize its members. In contrast, constructors and destructors are used to initialize the class members.
    
    A structure is a value type, while a class is a reference type.

    

2. What is polymorphism?
ans :
   Polymorphism means having many forms. In simple words,
  We can define polymorphism as the ability of a message to be displayed in more than one form.

  1. Compile-time polymorphism:
    It is also known as static polymorphism. This type of polymorphism is achieved by function overloading 
  
  2. Runtime polymorphism: 
    It is also known as Dynamic Method Dispatch, It is a process in which a function call to the overridden method 
    is resolved at Runtime. This type of polymorphism is achieved by Method Overriding.

3. Name the operators that cannot be overloaded.
ans : 
“ . ”      Member access or dot operator
“ ? : ”    Ternary or conditional operator
“ :: ”     Scope resolution operator
“ sizeof ” The object size operator
“ typeid ” Object type operator

4. How macro execution is faster than a function?
ans :
   Macro execution is faster than function execution because in function, 
   much of time is used to take control from function call to called function and much of time is spent in this process.
   Whereas in macro expression are directly replaced in the source code.

7. What is DOM?
ans : 
   The HTML DOM is a standard object model and programming interface for HTML. It defines:
   The HTML elements as objects

8. Sort – Sort array elements in ascending or descending order.
ans : 
     for (i = 0; i < n-1; i++)    
        for (j = 0; j < n-i-1; j++)
           if (arr[j] > arr[j+1])
             swap(&arr[j], &arr[j+1]);


9. How can you sort the elements of the array in descending order?

10. Define precondition and post-condition to a member function.
ans :

11. What do you mean by Stack unwinding?
ans : 
   The process of removing function entries from function call stack at run time is called Stack Unwinding.
   
   Stack Unwinding is generally related to Exception Handling. 
   In C++, when an exception occurs, the function call stack is linearly searched for the exception handler,
   and all the entries before the function with exception handler are removed from the function call stack.


12. If a class is declared without any access modifiers, where may the class be accessed?
ans : 
      It will have what called a Default access, and can be access by members in the package.

13. Does a class inherit the constructors of its superclass?
ans :  
     No a subclass cannot inherit the constructors of its superclass. 
     Constructors are special function members of a class in that they are not inherited by the subclass.

14. What is the property of the class?
ans : Properties are attributes or features that characterize classes. 

15. What is a Null object?
ans : 

Is XML case-sensitive?
Benefits of Stored Procedures?
Can you give an example of a Stored Procedure?
What is the Program counter?
What do you mean by static and dynamic modelling?
What do you mean by active and passive objects?
When do you use SQL Profiler?
How can we delete Duplicate row in a table?
What is the difference between an interface and multiple interfaces?
What are the steps involved in designing?
What is the difference between UNIQUE and PRIMARY KEY constraints?
What the use of the IP address.


EXP2....................................................................................................

1. Difference between compiler and interpreter.

ans  : 
     
  *   Interpreter translates just one statement of the program at a time into machine code.

      Compiler scans the entire program and translates the whole of it into machine code at once.
 
  *   An interpreter takes very less time to analyze the source code. However, the overall time to execute the process is much slower.

      A compiler takes a lot of time to analyze the source code. However, the overall time taken to execute the process is much faster. 

  *   An interpreter does not generate an intermediary code. Hence, an interpreter is highly efficient in terms of its memory.

      A compiler always generates an intermediary object code. It will need further linking. Hence more memory is needed.


2. What are AL/ML and their differences?

ans :   
  AI : It is the study of how to train the computers so that computers can do things which at present human can do better.

  ML : Machine Learning is said to learn from experience E w.r.t some class of task T and a performance measure P
       if learners performance at the task in the class as measured by P improves with experiences.

       It work as a computer program that does smart work	                    It is a simple concept machine takes data and learn from data.
       The goal is to simulate natural intelligence to solve complex problem	The goal is to learn from data on certain task to maximize the performance of machine on this task.
       AI is decision making.	                                                ML allows system to learn new things from data.

3. Why do we need OOPs?
ans :  
    
    1) OOP provides a clear modular structure for programs
    2) OOP makes it easy to maintain and modify existing code
    3) OOP provides a good framework for code libraries where supplied software components 
         can be easily adapted and modified by the programmer.
    4) Code Resusablity
    5) It is suitable for realword problems and real world works

4. What exactly is NLP? Explain for a layman

ans : Natural language processing (NLP) is the ability of a computer program to understand human language as \
      it is spoken and written -- referred to as natural language. 

      Data preprocessing and algorithm development

      Tokenization
      Stop word removal
      Lemmatization

5. What is strong AI and weak AI

6. What is a pointer and how will you declare it?
ans : 
     
     Pointers store address of variables or a memory location. 
 
     To access address of a variable to a pointer, we use the unary operator & (ampersand) that returns the address of that variable.
     For example &x gives us address of variable x. 

     One more operator is unary * (Asterisk) which is used for two things : 
        To declare a pointer variable: When a pointer variable is declared in C/C++, there must be a * before its name. 

        To access the value stored in the address we use the unary operator (*) that returns the value of the variable 
        located at the address specified by its operand. This is also called Dereferencing.
 
 


7. Why did you choose this programming language over other programming languages?

8. Why do you apply to IT, from your respective branch?

9. What are array and linked lists? Explain the difference between them.
ans : Size, Memory Allocation , Memory Efficiency

10. If you want to insert a node between two linked lists, how will you approach the problem?
ans : 

11. Static and dynamic memory allocation and then calloc. Malloc
ans : 
        A single block of demanded memory is assigned in malloc while multiple blocks of requested memory are allocated by calloc.

        malloc(sizeof(int))   calloc(5, sizeof(int))
         
12. Are you familiar with DBMS?
13. Explain prime number code


14. Swap two numbers without using the third variable
    
    a=10, b=20;
    a=a+b; //a=30 (10+20)
    b=a-b; //b=10 (30-20)
    a=a-b; //a=20 (30-10)
    
15. Explain Polymorphism
 
16. Difference between overloading and overriding
17. What is Normalisation?
18. Explain the difference between primary key and foreign key.
19. What are DDL, DML commands?
20 . If further, you get an option to choose a project between JAVA or C++ which one would you choose and why?





Tell me about yourself?
Tell me about your projects?
Tell me about your internships?
If your internship is of non-tech background, and why do you want to join a tech company?
Any preferred location?
Is there any gap in your studies, or any backlogs?
Are you comfortable relocating?
Situation-based questions.
What do you know about Wipro?
Why IT/Software? (If you are from non CS/IT)